Please welcome Kevin Calhoun.
Oh, that's me,
the QuickTime Streaming Engineering team,
in person.
Actually, several members of the
QuickTime Streaming Engineering team
will be here today to talk about,
well, QuickTime streams on the web.
This is not news to you.
If you've been at
sessions during the show,
it seems to us anyway
on the QuickTime team,
as if almost every demo at the
show includes a QuickTime movie,
many of them streaming.
This is wonderful for us to see because,
after all, the tagline for WWDC 2000 is,
"QuickTime is ploppable."
If you missed the previous session,
what that means is that
QuickTime movies can show up everywhere.
QuickTime is, in fact, everywhere.
In fact, QuickTime media,
media that QuickTime can play,
is everywhere on the Internet.
Yes, QuickTime streams via
streaming protocols,
but QuickTime can also play
files that are transferred via
conventional file transfer protocols.
And QuickTime can also
handle connectivity,
the network, media that's connected to
other media via URL links.
We're going to talk in this session...
about how you can take advantage of these
QuickTime services in your applications.
On the reception side,
on the reception of media
coming from the Internet,
we'll talk about opening and playback
of media in your applications.
Now many of you already own
or develop applications that
can play QuickTime media.
Can I have a show of hands here?
Who here knows all about opening a movie,
instantiating a movie controller,
closing the movie file, setting the movie
controller action filter,
Nobody?
Anyone here do this in your app already?
Excellent.
I'll give the rest of you a link for
where you can go to get information
about how to open and play back
QuickTime media in its most basic form.
But even those of you who do,
if you haven't touched that part of
your application for several years,
we have some recommendations for
how you can optimize your user's
experience of QuickTime media,
of QuickTime network media in your apps.
That's the chief part,
the chief topic of the first
part of our talk today.
Then we're going to talk about some
things you should be aware of if your
application actually edits media.
There are some surprising things that
are showing up now in QuickTime movies.
If you wrote your app three
or four years ago even,
and you're editing QuickTime media,
you should be aware of some
things that show up in streaming
movies and how to deal with them.
We'll also talk about how your
application can mediate the linking
of one piece of media to another.
Thank you.
But we're saving the best for last today.
For the first time publicly,
we're talking about our
QuickTime streaming broadcast APIs.
Not just the reception side,
but how your application can
be the source of streaming
media on the web as well.
That's coming up here
today in this session.
You're in the right place.
Some of you are applauding and
some of you are just saying,
"Finally." Okay, I told you for those of
you who are not yet playing
QuickTime media in your application,
I'd like to ask you why.
Now that you know at this show all
the things that QuickTime can do,
not only play stream media but
also interactive media as well.
In fact,
you can embed a calculator in your
application just by using these
APIs as we saw at the previous session.
Go to the URL www.apple.com/quicktime,
click on the Developer tab,
and that will take you right to the
right page within Apple's Developer site
for you to get documentation,
headers, sample code for how to
get started with playing
QuickTime media in your application.
Also, you probably want to participate
in the QuickTime mailing lists.
There's a QuickTime API mailing
list that you can sign up for.
There's a QuickTime talk mailing list.
There's a VR mailing list.
Go to list.apple.com,
search for QuickTime,
find the mailing lists that
are interesting to you,
and you'll begin participating in
the discussion with members of the
QuickTime team and other developers who
are using QuickTime in amazing ways.
Okay,
so let's now talk about the topic of
receiving media on the web via QuickTime.
QuickTime supports two
flavors of such reception.
And there's a tradeoff, of course,
as you know on the Internet,
between getting the media as
good as it can be and getting
it as fast as we can get it.
The tradeoff is, in fact,
between integrity and expediency.
You either want it real good
or you want it right now.
QuickTime allows you to make the
choice of how a content developer
wants to deploy media on the web.
And your application can handle
the media regardless of the choice
that the content developer makes.
If you want the best content possible,
for example,
the movie trailers that are up on
QuickTime's movie trailer site,
FastStart is the mechanism
that QuickTime offers.
We use standard file transfer protocols,
HTTP and FTP,
and QuickTime can play the media that's
being transferred by these transfer
protocols before it's all there.
That's why we call it FastStart.
As soon as there's enough media to play,
we'll start playing it.
And you get the best quality because
those file transfer protocols guarantee
the fidelity of the media transfer.
However, for many applications,
the choice of real-time
streaming is more appropriate.
In other words, for a live broadcast,
for example, you don't want to wait
for a file transfer.
You want the broadcast to keep
up with what's happening live.
Well, a real-time protocol is
appropriate for this choice,
and QuickTime now does that also.
That's the form of timely data transfer.
We support RTSP and RTP.
All of the transfer protocols
that we support in QuickTime are,
in fact, IETF standards,
and they work with servers
of many different varieties.
Okay,
when will network media come into play?
Are you safe from things
like network latency?
Well, if your application
opens QuickTime media,
even if you haven't touched that
portion of your application since 1992,
it already does play network media.
Even if all you use is the
QuickTime API call "new movie from file,"
you should be aware that local files
can contain references to external media,
and your application might require,
when it calls "new movie from
file," the user to wait for a
network transaction to occur.
We'll talk about how you can make that
experience better in just a minute.
If your application is a little
bit broader in its approach
to opening QuickTime media,
you might be calling "new movie from
data ref," which would allow your
application to be able to access
the data from the data source.
You might be calling "new movie
from data ref" to your application
to open QuickTime movies via URL,
such as HTTP or FTP or RTSP,
or any other form of reference
of media that QuickTime supports.
Even forms of reference that
QuickTime itself doesn't support,
but which have been added by third-party
developers as extensions to QuickTime.
We'll talk about how you can add support
for "new movie from data ref" to your app
so you can open movies directly via URLs.
You should be aware
that when you do this,
network transactions will be
more efficient than ever before.
For example, for FastStart,
a very typical transaction
for an HTTP URL might be
a request from the server,
a GET for some media,
and then the transfer begins.
This transfer could take an
awfully long period of time,
and we have requested specifically
that the QuickTime sessions be
across the street from the main hall,
so that we'll have a slower
network over here so I can show
this to you in just a moment.
The series of transactions
that occurs for a streaming
movie are somewhat different.
If you send an RTSP URL to
a streaming server,
there's a transaction that occurs
first that first returns to you
a session description for the
stream that will then ensue,
and then a network session
will be established that allows
the media to be transferred.
So the transactions are a
little bit more complex.
Again, there might be some
delay in this occurring.
One other wrinkle that you should be
aware of when you're playing network
media is that QuickTime may intervene.
If the user's connection settings in
the QuickTime control panel are set not
to allow multiple simultaneous streams,
then QuickTime will devote all the
available bandwidth between the machine
and the network to the particular stream
that has the user's current focus,
usually the last one that the user opened
or the one that the user last clicked.
I'll demonstrate that as well.
That's all just to tell you that
there may be new wrinkles in
your user's experience of your
apps because of network media.
Okay, let's see some of this in
action over here on demo one.
What I decided to do was to prove
to you that even your legacy
applications could play network media.
So I went and I dug through my office,
which those of you who know my
office realize is no simple feat,
and I came up with
some old QuickTime CDs.
I found QuickTime 3, I found QuickTime 2,
I found QuickTime 1.5 and I decided
if I went back any further than
that I was inviting some danger.
So off of QuickTime 1.5 CD-ROM from
1992 I pulled off MoviePlayer 1.1
and I'll show you MoviePlayer 1.1
D1 is actually the version string
that we shipped with QuickTime 1.5.
You'll have to ask third party
developers who may be present in the
audience why that was the version
number for that version of QuickTime.
What I want to do is to open some
local files with MoviePlayer 1.1
that reference network media.
So I happen to have some here.
This particular movie
is a movie that's coming
off an HTTP server,
which I happen to have
running right next to me here.
And I'll drop this file,
which is fairly-- that's
not the right one.
Here it is.
Here's the file that has the reference
to the HTTP URL on the server.
You can see that this particular
movie is only 22,000 bytes.
If I drop this on MoviePlayer 1.1,
you'll see that even MoviePlayer 1.1
is capable of playing network media.
What you see happening there at the
bottom of the screen is an indication
of the state of the download.
5, 6, how many?
[Transcript missing]
You can do it without laughing at Dan,
that's funny.
Okay, so what you saw happening at
the bottom of the screen was an
indication of not necessarily the
progress of the file transfer,
but of course in QuickTime what
matters more is how much of this
movie can we actually play right now.
So let me just drop that on again.
Watch the bottom of the screen and watch
the progress of the download occur.
By time, not by file size.
That indicates how much of the
movie is currently playable,
the first minute, the first two minutes,
what have you.
MoviePlayer 1.1 from 1992,
which predates QuickTime's
ability to stream,
can also play streamed media.
I have that same movie
compressed for streaming.
Let me drop that onto MoviePlayer 1.1.
And here I'll click the play
button and you'll see the typical
experience of a streaming movie.
The transaction occurs between
the client and the server.
And then once the movie
becomes available to play,
it plays.
Let me show you that again.
In this particular case,
we're not waiting for a
file transfer to occur.
We're waiting for the transaction
between client and server to occur.
It goes through multiple stages.
And you'll see status messages
in the movie controller to
indicate each of the stages.
Negotiating, buffering,
here they come again.
If I should change the
time within this movie,
then of course I have to
negotiate with the server to
play later on in the stream.
You've got bugs.
Oh, that's too bad.
That was a good one, too.
I play that myself so that no one else
has the privilege of embarrassing me.
Okay, so now you've seen the typical
experience of playing streaming
media using standard QuickTime stuff.
If you use the standard
QuickTime controller,
that's the experience the user can
have in your application as well.
Let me show you an application
that allows me to play
QuickTime media in line.
Outlook Express allows me to
send a QuickTime movie file from
my mail server to somebody else,
and when that other person
receives the mail file,
the movie will play in line.
So I sent myself a streaming movie,
and I can play it here
in Outlook Express.
Which allows me to play streaming
movies right there in the mail doc.
So even without you being aware of it,
if we go back to slides,
your users may be playing network
media in your applications.
Now there may be some
problems that can arise,
if we can get back to slides,
With that experience,
because as we all know, the Web has some
interesting characteristics.
Foremost among these is it can be slow,
especially if the packets
have to cross the street.
Secondly, media that you play on the
Internet may be dynamic.
You may not know everything
about the media when you first
open it that there is to know.
For example,
in the case of streaming movies,
when we are having that early transaction
between the client and server,
the client may not know at what
size the movie wants to play or
even the duration of the media.
Those things might only
become known subsequently.
Well, how do you deal with that?
We'll get to that in a moment.
Also,
media on the Internet is interesting,
like other things on the Internet,
because it can be interactive.
It can link from one
piece of media to another.
You might want to mediate that
linking in your application.
We'll talk about that.
Okay,
let's drill down on some of these things.
The net can be slow, of course,
because there may be limitations
in bandwidth between the
client and the network.
If I'm on a very slow modem, for example.
But other problems may occur
at other points on the network.
There might be a router between the
client and the server which is congested
and can't keep up with all of the packets
that have to be routed through it.
There can be a delay there.
Finally,
as we saw demonstrated so dramatically
with denial of service attacks recently,
servers can be overloaded and
for that reason they can be slow.
The point is,
quite beyond any one person or
any one organization's control,
there can be delay,
for one reason or another,
in a network transaction.
Movies can also be dynamic.
I mentioned earlier that dimensions
of a movie might not be known,
so they might have to change
from an unknown to a known state
after a movie has been opened,
or they might change from one
known to another known state,
just because the movie wants
to play at a different size.
Duration of a movie can change,
again because you might not know it
and then later it might become known,
but also because it might change
from one known state to another.
For example,
a stream might be set up as a
live broadcast and at some point,
towards the end of an event,
the server might tell you what
the rest of the duration is,
because it's set to close
down after five minutes.
How can you become aware of such a
thing hours after you open the movie?
Also, movies can stop.
You might set them to play,
or your user might set them to play,
but they might be authored to
pause for one reason or another,
or bandwidth restrictions might come
into play and QuickTime itself might
intervene and stop a movie in order
to devote bandwidth to something else.
Finally, movies can be interactive.
They might be smart movies,
such as QuickTime VR movies that allow
you to navigate them left and right,
up and down,
because of direct user manipulation.
Or they might have state.
A lot of Flash movies, for example,
are authored in such a way
that when the user clicks a
particular button in the movie,
a set of options then become available.
There might be different
pieces of content,
a tab, for example,
with different pieces of content,
or perhaps it might transition to a
different segment of the Flash movie
that presents something different.
These states are navigable by the user.
The movies might also have
links to external media.
These links might be automatic.
A movie might play and automatically
send a link to a web page
or another piece of media.
Or they can be links that
require user intervention,
something that you click on and
then the link becomes available.
Let me show you some examples of
dynamism on the QuickTime TV that
we have right now.
So on demo one,
I'm going to open up the QuickTime player
and show you some new channels in
our QuickTime TV channel drawer.
The inventor of which I can't mention.
I don't happen to have an
example of this just now because
I remembered I left it in the office.
But you can play a movie that
automatically tells the client
to go to a web page or goes to
a different piece of content.
This can also occur.
How can your application
know when this occurs?
How can you mediate?
Those are things we'll talk about
now as we get into some API details.
Back to slides.
You can handle all of
these things gracefully.
Slowness, we'll call it asynchrony,
just between you and me.
We can handle media that's dynamic,
media that's interactive.
First thing that we recommend
is that you go ahead and support
URLs in your application.
Those of you who already call new
movie from file in order to open
local movie files can easily add
new movie from data ref in order to
support the opening of movies via URL.
I have a code snippet
to show you in a moment.
You should be aware,
as we just mentioned,
that this can take a while,
and we recommend that if you do this,
you provide an affordance in your
UI for recent URLs so the user can
have a history of where he or she has
recently visited available in your app.
How do you do it?
How do you open URLs in your app?
If I know I want to go to
http://qtvote.net/movie,
can I just type that into your app and
go there directly without opening a file?
Yes, I can.
Here's how you do it.
You can do it in your application.
The key API call,
new movie from data ref.
A data reference is just a record,
just a structure in QuickTime that tells
us what kind of reference it is and then
also the data for the reference itself.
In this case, a URL reference has a type
URL data handler subtype,
and the data in that data
reference is just a handle full of
characters terminated by a null.
So you can do this in your application
just by allocating such a handle.
Putting the characters of the URL in,
make sure it's zero terminated,
and call new movie from data ref.
And you instantly have a feature exactly
the same as open URL in QuickTime player.
Of course, you might also want to do this
programmatically based on other
things that are occurring in your app.
If you have a multimedia app,
you can easily add this,
not as a user feature,
but as something you want to
make available under the covers.
For example,
an authoring app like Live Stage.
When you are opening
a movie for playback,
our strongest recommendation
is use the movie controller.
APIs exist in QuickTime so that
you can control playback without
the use of a movie controller.
However,
you lose many things when this happens.
The movie controller is our mechanism,
QuickTime's mechanism,
to inform you of changes that
occur in the media as it plays.
The movie controller is also
our mechanism for handling
things like asynchrony,
for handling things like interactivity.
If you don't instantiate the movie
controller and attach it to the movie,
it's much more difficult for
us to present these features.
In fact, the only reason that MoviePlayer
1.1 from 1992 knows how to play fast
start media and streaming media is
because it uses the movie controller.
And by instantiating a movie controller,
it gets the latest and greatest features.
It gets the latest and greatest
version of the movie controller,
the one that we shipped
with QuickTime 4.1.2.
So therefore, that's how it knows how
to do all that cool stuff.
You should be aware that
the user interface of the
Movie Controller is optional.
The experience that I showed
you in MoviePlayer 1.1 with the
standard Movie Controller is
something that you can override.
In one of the demos yesterday
of the MovieShaker application,
they had completely overridden
the standard look of the
QuickTime Movie Controller.
In fact, QuickTime itself does this
with the QuickTime Player.
You can do the same.
Programatically, once you've instantiated
a Movie Controller,
how do you start the movie?
If you don't want the user to do it,
you want to do it yourself.
Send the Movie Controller the
action via MCDoAction,
the API call, MCActionPreRollAndPlay.
That will take care of,
from now and forever, network media,
local media, all the different wrinkles.
All right.
How do you detect edits?
How do you know that the
duration of a movie has changed?
Once you've instantiated MovieController,
you need to install a
MovieController action filter.
That's a callback routine that
you write in your application,
and you let us know what it is,
by means of an API call.
That allows us to call you to
tell you everything interesting
that's going on in that movie.
For example, to find out if the duration
of a movie has changed,
look for the action,
MCAction Movie Edited.
That's how we tell you.
That's how the QuickTime player,
for example,
knows that a stream has a fixed duration,
as opposed to an indefinite duration.
If it doesn't receive an MCAction
Movie Edited action through its
MovieController action filter,
it assumes the stream
is a live broadcast.
How do you know that media
wants to resize itself?
Well, first of all,
we're very nice to you in that
we don't insist that you support
media that's dynamic in this way.
If you're not prepared in your
application to handle movies that resize,
then we won't try to resize them.
But if you are prepared,
then what you can do once you've
opened a movie is to set the
movie play hint "Allow dynamic
resize" as you see up on the slide,
and that will tell QuickTime that you're
prepared to handle dynamic resizing.
How do you know when the
movie wants to resize itself?
Again, your movie controller
action filter will tell you.
Look for "MC
Action Controller Size Changed."
You can get the size that the movie
wants to be now and resize your window,
if that's what's appropriate,
or layout your page,
if that's what's appropriate.
Okay, actually I'm going to skip this
demo and come back to it in a
moment because I have some other
API calls I want to go through first.
This MovieControllerActionFilter,
this has a lot of intelligence
associated with it.
That's what you're sitting
there saying right now.
Yes it does.
In fact, all of the things that we do
in our own user interface,
you can override.
You can get the streaming
status messages.
When is the movie buffering?
When are we negotiating with the server?
We'll tell you in that
MovieControllerActionFilter,
look for this particular action,
show status string.
And in the QtStatusStringRecord,
you'll get a string along with
some flags to tell you what kind of
string it is that you can display.
Okay, what about interactivity?
Movies want to link from
one place to another.
I want to know when this is happening.
Or I have a special way to resolve URLs.
Or I've built media that's specifically
for my application and I want to
mediate all of the URL linking
that occurs within my application.
How do you do that?
Again,
in your MovieControllerActionFilter,
there's a particular action to watch for:
MCActionLinkToURL.
When you see that,
we will give you the string
which represents the URL that
the media is trying to link to.
And you can do whatever
you want with that URL.
If you wish,
you can handle the link yourself and open
the media directly in your application.
If you do that,
just set the return value of your
function to true and QuickTime will
not perform its default handling.
We'll assume that it's not.
But you've done it.
You can change the URL that
the media is trying to link to.
You can resolve it.
You can do character substitution,
what have you.
Put the URL back into the
parameters that you get.
Set handled equal to false.
And QuickTime then will perform
its standard handling but
with the URL that you gave us.
Okay, if you are going to do
this overriding of URLs,
you should be aware that some interesting
things may pop up in these URLs.
You might not get them just naked URLs,
HTTP or RTSP and so forth.
We also encode other information
into these strings as well.
For example,
if media has been authored to link to
a movie within the QuickTime player,
just as in an HTML webpage,
there will be target information
associated with that URL that you
are going to want to have to know
where the link should be represented,
where it should be carried out.
In QuickTime,
we give you this information
in the same string as the URL.
The format is, as you see here,
the URL is bracketed with angle brackets.
A T will represent the URL.
A V will represent the URL.
A V will represent that the
target information follows.
Then within another
set of angle brackets,
we will give you the target information.
The target can be the name of a frame,
just as in HTML, which QuickTime player,
by the way,
interprets as the name of a window.
It can be some special
string values such as myself,
which means replace me,
the movie that wants to link,
with whatever this link points to.
It can be web browser,
which QuickTime interprets to
mean show the link in a webpage.
Or it can be QuickTime player.
Now,
these might not be the only weird things
that show up in these URL strings.
In fact, they're not.
Right now, what we're recommending is,
if you see anything you don't recognize,
then don't try to handle it yourself.
Just pass it through to QuickTime,
and QuickTime will deal with it.
In the future,
we're going to be talking about
a more robust mechanism that's
more generalized for URL linking,
but for now,
this will get you started with
mediation of QuickTime URLs.
You can see more of the
kinds of interactivity that
QuickTime movies can play.
If you missed the previous session,
you missed some great demos of this.
But also tomorrow morning
right here at 9:00,
more interactivity will be presented.
And as you witness that,
remember that you can mediate
all this in your application.
Okay, so we dealt with several of
the characteristics of the Web.
Here I'm standing on stage dealing
with three prime characteristics of
the Web before you're here today,
feeling really important.
Dealt with interactivity,
dealt with dynamism.
The only thing left that we
have to deal with is slowness.
So what we've decided to do with
QuickTime 4.1.2 is to distribute a T3
with every version that you download.
And that's it,
so we can skip the rest of these slides.
But in fact, it turns out that there are
export restrictions on T3s,
and so we can't make them available
to everyone here in the room.
Therefore, some of you might still be
suffering through slow connections
for one reason or another.
Therefore,
we're recommending that those of you
who open and play QuickTime media in
your apps be prepared to deal with
slowness by allowing QuickTime to
handle network transfers asynchronously.
Now, asynchrony is not new to QuickTime,
of course.
We've been dealing with it in
web browsers since the very first
release of the QuickTime plugin.
And of course,
we're dealing with asynchrony
with QuickTime streaming.
But for the first time publicly,
we're talking about how you--well,
the first time publicly
in Northern California,
anyway--we're going to tell you
how you can add this to your own
applications and not force the
user to wait for a slow connection.
Now what you should be aware
is once you give permission to
QuickTime to do things asynchronously,
movies that you open might not
be in a state that you expect.
They might not immediately be playable.
They might not immediately be savable
because you've told QuickTime,
"Do this asynchronously.
Let it happen when it happens."
You as the application take on
the responsibility for inquiring
what state a movie is in before
you perform an operation with it.
OK.
How do you do it?
When you call new movie from file,
or new movie from data ref,
set in the flags field,
the flags parameter of those calls,
new movie async OK.
That's your permission for
QuickTime to do things asynchronously.
Then, a movie will be returned to
you that may not be playable,
may not be saveable.
It's up to you to call get
movie load state to find out
what state it's currently in,
to find out what you can do with it.
And then if an error should occur,
you can find out what that is
by calling get movie status.
Was there a problem with
a network transaction?
Do I, am I missing a codec for this
particular piece of media?
Call get movie status
to find that stuff out.
Okay,
you can combine the flag newmovieasyncOK
with other flags that you may
already be using when calling
newmoviefromfile or newmoviefromdataref.
It just ores right in there
and we're happy with all that.
The flag's field is what,
thirty-two bits?
Are we running low?
No?
Okay, we have a few more.
Stay tuned next year, come back.
GetMovieLoadState that tells you
what state the movie is in currently
currently returns the following values.
There may be an error.
That would be a negative value.
You can then call GetMovieStatus
to find out what's wrong.
We might tell you that the
movie is currently loading,
in which case wait a little while longer
before calling GetMovieLoadState again.
We could tell you the movie is playable,
which means you can
immediately start to play it.
However, that can occur before the
entire movie has loaded.
You saw earlier that QuickTime handles
fast start media by allowing playback
before the entire transfer is complete.
So a movie can be playable,
you should note,
before the loading is done.
When everything is loaded,
getMovieLoadState will
return load state complete.
At that point, it's safe, for example,
to save the movie to a local file
if your application enables that.
So here you can see that you can compare
these return values arithmetically.
The more advanced load states
are arithmetically greater
than the less advanced ones.
It's pretty smart how we managed
to figure out how to do that
all by ourselves in Cupertino.
OK, if you get an error when you are
loading media for one reason or another,
you can find out exactly what
went wrong by a getMovieStatus.
That will return you a
component result that,
uh,
will give you an indication
of the error that occurred.
What I want to do actually
is go back to demo one.
There's a fast guy back there.
All I have to do is walk over here.
Watch this.
I walk over here, he goes, "No,
I won't do that to you.
Sorry."
What I have here is a
URL in my scrapbook,
which I will now copy.
And I have a very smart application,
which is actually quite small.
This little application,
which actually has a lot of stuff
linked into it that I can't talk about,
so I won't show you how big it really is,
could be much smaller.
All it knows how to do are the basic
things for opening QuickTime media.
Open movie from DataRef.
I'm sorry, new movie from DataRef.
New movie controller.
Set a movie controller action filter.
Close the movie file.
Let it play.
That's all this thing knows how to do,
but it also allows QuickTime to
do things asynchronously.
It has an open URL menu item
that allows me to paste in a URL.
This is a particularly large movie
that might take a while to transfer,
although it's actually
right next to me here,
the server is.
What you'll see this application
do is while the movie's load
state is prior to playability,
what it will do is
display a loading message.
So here you see that
it's currently loading,
and as soon as the
movie becomes playable,
then it actually displays
the movie in a window.
Let's see.
Oh, I haven't got the URL for the even
slower movie out on the Akamai
network that I can show you.
That would allow you to see that
loading thing a little bit longer.
Your application can choose what
to do while the movie is loading.
The whole point is, while it's loading,
I have control over the menus.
Boy, that was quick, huh?
I've already returned
control to the user.
I'm not waiting for a new
movie from DataRef to return.
I'm actually checking the state
of the movie independently.
[Transcript missing]
Now, we're going to move over to a second
topic for this particular session.
That covers my part of the session.
What we're going to talk about now
is some features that you should
be aware of of the streaming APIs.
If we can go back to slides.
We're going to talk,
Anne Jones is going to come out
here and talk to you about some
things you should be aware of when
you open movies that are streaming,
they can have surprising things inside
them that you may or may not be aware of.
So she'll tell you all
about those details now.
I'm going to talk about some
of the things that you can do
when you use the streaming APIs.
Now, why would you want to
use the streaming APIs?
If you use just the plain movie APIs,
you can get pretty good
streaming playback experience.
But if you want more information
about what's being streamed or more
control over what's being streamed,
then you should use some
of the streaming APIs.
And also, as you'll see later,
if you want to do a
broadcast application,
you'll have to use the streaming APIs.
With streaming,
two new track types were introduced:
hint tracks and streaming tracks.
Hint tracks are found in
movies that are put on servers,
and the streaming servers looks at the
information inside these hint tracks
and forms RTP packets out of them.
The really cool thing about using
these hint tracks is that it
makes the streaming servers media
agnostic and codec agnostic.
So, for instance, later this year when we
introduce MPEG streaming,
we'll have to, of course,
rev the client to handle
streaming of MPEG reception and
also rev the hinting components
so that we can hint MPEG movies.
But these movies can be placed after
they're hinted on the streaming
servers that are out there today,
and the servers can just
stream them without knowing
anything about MPEG movies.
If you have an authoring app and
you want to add hinting to your app,
it's done through the basic
QuickTime export components.
Something to remember is that
if you have a movie with a
hint track and it gets edited,
then the movie needs to be re-hinted.
The other kind of track
are streaming tracks,
and these are found on movies
that are on the users' machines.
And API-wise, there's a lot more that
you can do with these.
The streaming track usually
contains a very small sample.
The amount of data is like
a RTSP URL or SDP data.
And when these movies are first opened,
so they only have this URL,
and they don't know anything about
the media that's going to be streamed.
As the stream track contacts the server,
it gets more information from the server
and it starts knowing more information
about the things to be streamed,
such as the number of streams,
the media type of the things
that are being streamed,
the dimensions,
the duration of the thing being streamed,
etc.
Something else to remember about
movies with stream tracks is that
they really should be pre-pre-rolled.
And pre-pre-roll is sort of like
an async version of pre-roll.
And if you use the movie controller,
pre-roll and play,
you'll get that automatically.
But anyway, during pre-pre-roll,
that's when the streaming
track contacts the server,
gets all the information,
buffers up some data, gets ready to play.
And if you don't
pre-pre-roll these movies,
then your playback at the beginning
will be pretty bad and you'll lose
lots of data at the beginning.
Okay,
if you want to use the streaming APIs,
include QTSMovie.h and
QuickTimeStreaming.h.
You'll mostly make the calls
QTS Media Get Info to get information
about the presentation as a whole or
QTS Media Get In the Stream Info to get
information about a particular stream.
If you have a movie,
to find out if you have
a stream track in it,
call getMovieIntoTrackType
with kqts-streamMediaType.
Once you have the stream track,
you can get the stream
media handler from it.
Once you have the stream media handler,
there's all sorts of information you
can get about what's being streamed.
In this example,
we're getting the average running data
rate and the average loss percentage
of the thing that's being streamed.
And you do this by calling
QTSMediaGetInfo with
particular selectors.
Okay,
another thing you can find out is how
many streams are coming from the server.
Once you have the number of streams,
you can find out information
about each particular stream.
In this example,
we're getting the media type
of a particular stream and
also the sample description.
There's lots of other information
that I'm not showing here
that you could actually get,
such as the frame rate, the dimensions,
volume.
OK, if you're going to use
the streaming APIs,
there's some errors that
you should be aware of.
QtS unknown value error means that
the thing that you're querying
doesn't know the answer yet,
but it might later.
So for instance, the streampack has just
contacted the server,
and some information has come across,
and it knows that there
are three streams,
but it doesn't know the media
type of these streams yet.
So if you ask for the media
type of a particular stream,
you'll get back this error.
Later on, if you ask for the media type
and it's gotten that information,
then it will return the actual
media type and return no error.
QTS bad selector error,
on the other hand,
means that the thing that you're
querying will never know the answer,
and so you shouldn't try again.
And an example is if you make
volume info calls on a video stream.
Okay, if you want more control
over what you're streaming,
then you'll need to use
the QTS presentation calls.
A QTS presentation is a set
of streams with one timeline.
So you can think of it as the
set of streams that one stream
media handler would control.
And in fact,
the stream media handler is implemented
using the QTS presentation APIs.
And these APIs are the same ones that you
can find in QuickTimeStreaming.h and the
same ones that you can use in your apps.
If you have a Stream Media Handler,
you can get the presentation
from the Media Handler by
calling QTS Media Get Info
with the appropriate selector.
Once you have the presentation,
there's all sorts of
things you can do with it.
An example here is if you're streaming
a movie and it's got two audio tracks,
you can change the volume of the
audio tracks independently by calling
QTSPresSetVolumes on each audio track.
And this is something that you
can't do using the movie APIs alone.
So this is just a very brief
introduction of things you can do
using the streaming APIs on playback.
And if you're more interested,
look in the file QuickTimeStreaming.h.
and Kevin Marks will tell you
more about the broadcast specific
portions of the streaming APIs.
Hi, the Streaming Broadcast APIs is
not something we've covered before.
I'm going to discuss them briefly
here and show some demonstrations
of things you can do with them.
If you want to get access to these,
I'll tell you at the end how you can be
seeded with these as we develop them.
So the way QuickTime streaming is
organized internally is that transmitting
is parallel to receiving in API terms.
Both of them are QTS presentations,
as Anne just discussed.
There are different components that
are used inside the broadcast side.
There are sources that
provide sample data.
Packetizers then break
that up for the net,
and it's then sent out over various
different network configurations.
Anne just mentioned
QuickTime presentations.
Again, see QuickTimeStreaming.h here
for how to manipulate these.
Here's a simple diagram
of how this works.
You've got your application at the
top which talks to the presentation.
Within the presentation there are
various streams which may be video,
audio, text or whatever.
And within each stream there are a
series of different components that are
handling the different parts of this.
The sources providing media data
in the usual QuickTime format.
The packetizer takes that media data,
finds out from the stream what size
it wants the packets to be and so on.
And breaks it up into that
and hands it on to the network
component that sends it out.
To create a transmission,
we have a description stored in
a QuickTime Atom container that
describes the number of streams,
network connectivity,
which sources and which
packetizers to use.
You can construct these yourself,
or you will be able to once
we tell you how to do that,
but importers can also make them
from other formats such as SDP files.
And the way that you would start
a transmission is you call new
presentation from data and pass
in one of these atom containers.
And you set the flag to
say it's in send mode.
As Kevin said earlier,
you need to be aware that a lot of this
networking stuff requires asynchrony,
that you will try something
out and things won't be
constructed straight away.
You need to define a
QTS notification proc,
which you set up in the presentation,
and the presentation will
then call you back with status
information when something changes.
It handles the asynchronous actions,
it also gives you error messages and some
kind of knowledge when things change.
This is true on both the
send and receive sides.
On the receive side,
you get notifications to say when
a stream has arrived and so on.
If you want a fine-grained
knowledge of what's going on inside,
you can set this up on the
receive side and listen to it.
On the broadcast side,
the component chain is built when you
pre-roll or preview the presentation.
So you call QTS pre-roll or QTS preview.
However,
it won't be completely constructed and
set up straight away because network
negotiations may need to happen.
So you'll need to idle the presentation
a bit first and wait for acts coming
back from the different parts to say
that you're okay to start broadcasting.
So we'll do a demonstration
starting a broadcast.
Kevin's going to come out
and help me with this.
[Transcript missing]
So if I start the application up,
I'm going to open an STP file,
which is the IETF standard file
for describing RTP streaming media.
Open that up.
It's for my camera.
I can point this at you
and see what we can see.
Over here,
Kevin's going to open up a copy of
the same STP file on his machine.
And you can see that
it's buffering up here.
It's probably not well lit enough.
I'll turn it around and
point it at him for a bit.
So you can see I'm getting a
slow frame rate preview over
here on the broadcast machine.
On the client machine you're
seeing QuickTime streaming.
You'll notice that there's a delay.
I'll move the camera away and back.
[Transcript missing]
Does it blow up?
I could do it down here.
If I do it on this side,
you get the usual feedback thing.
If I do it over there,
I'll zoom this thing.
You get a longer feedback loop.
It doesn't work.
Was he wearing a vibe?
It's on the table back here.
Okay, back to slides, please.
I mentioned the sources earlier.
Sources are where the media data comes
from that's sent in the broadcast.
And in that case,
we were using a sequence grabber sourcer.
But it doesn't have to come from that.
The media can come from anywhere.
And if you're familiar with QuickTime,
you'll know about sample
descriptions that describe
how media data is compressed.
And you also need to provide a timestamp.
Writing your own source is a
powerful way of extending this.
Broadcasting,
streaming isn't just for video and audio.
You can imagine using it to send
experimental results or stock
prices or whatever you feel like.
There are built-in
sources into QuickTime,
including the Sequence Grabber Sourcer,
which is the one that I've
just demonstrated there,
but you can add your own.
So what the sources provide
to QuickTime is a data record.
And you can see there's a
whole series of fields here.
The key ones are the time
value and sample description.
You can get the time value back
from a QuickTime time base.
And you provide the sample
description to describe your
media and send the data through.
And you notice you have
to provide a release proc,
which is called when the next stage in
the chain is finished with the data.
And then it wants it to be disposed.
And there's also duration and flags.
Duration is only really
relevant for audio data.
For video data, for example,
you don't necessarily know
when the next frame is coming,
so the client will just display
the frame when it comes through.
But the time values need to be matching,
or your sync will go.
And, second demonstration,
I'm going to show you a custom sourcer.
Okay, so what I have here is a sourcer
component which I can reinstall here.
And then I can use the same
application as I had before.
This time,
instead of opening the SDP file,
I'm opening an Atom container file
that contains that container describing
the streams that I'm going to use
and says to use my custom sourcer
rather than relying on the default
of using the sequence grabber sourcer
which you get with the SDP file.
So here what I've got is a sourcer
that opens a movie file and I can
step through the frames in the file
and try and catch up with myself.
If we open this on the client,
over here you'll see that, again,
it buffers, it gets a larger size,
and it's displaying the slides.
And I can, you notice again that I've
changed it here and it'll change
over there three seconds later.
Um, there's something, it's not attached.
So in this example,
I've taken the slides from
the presentation and exported
them as picked files and made
the picked files into a movie.
So what I'm sending over
the wire is picked data,
which actually is fairly well
compressed for this kind of information.
[Transcript missing]
I could,
we could just send out this audio
and the slides and that would give
a fairly good example of what's
going on until we hit the demo.
I don't think I can give this
presentation with three second lag,
so I'll go back to the ordinary
slides to do the rest of it.
So the next stage in the chain
that I spoke about earlier,
packetizers and reassemblers.
We already published the APIs for these
and explained how to build them because
they're also used for stored content.
When you hint a movie,
the packetizer breaks it up into
packets and when you play a movie back,
the reassembler puts
them back together again.
[Transcript missing]
In terms of transporting
your media over the Internet,
there are three main ways of doing
this with QuickTime streaming,
which are multicast, unicast,
and reflected unicast.
Multicast is
Basically,
we make the job of making multiple
copies the problem of the network itself,
of the routers.
So the transmitter sends out the
data into the network and the
routers replicate it and send it on
to the clients who are listening.
This is great for us because we're
not doing the work the network is.
It's also great for you because there's
only one copy of the data on the network.
Or rather,
there's only one copy of the data on
each particular leg of the network.
The router won't forward it
through if there isn't anyone
listening at that point.
The drawback of this is that
multicasts don't go everywhere.
They have a limited range and
not all routers will pass them.
So if you were doing a broadcast
within an organization,
if we were broadcasting
something within Apple,
for example, we could do a multicast.
It would go around the campus
and pass through the routers and
everyone would be able to see it.
But it wouldn't load our
network because there'd only,
in effect, be one copy of the data moving
around over each branch.
But if we wanted to do it
out to the whole world,
we'd have to persuade every
ISP between us and them to
enable multicast on the routers.
And that hasn't happened yet, though.
People are working on it.
The second way that you can
do it is to do a unicast,
which is more like a...
The QuickTime is a conventional
internet connection where you
send out packets with a label on,
with someone's IP address,
they pass through the internet
and get routed over to the client.
This works fine,
but the drawback is that there's
only one address on the packet,
so they only go to one person.
There are more complicated things
you can do to get around that.
The way that we do this is to have
a separate machine that does that.
So we have a transmitter machine
that's creating the broadcast
and sending out the packets.
And that goes to what's
called a reflector.
Now the QuickTime streaming
server contains a reflector.
And if you want to hear more about that,
stay for the session after this one.
So what happens there is that the
transmitter captures the data,
sends the packets to
the streaming server.
As each packet comes into
the streaming server,
it makes a copy and sends
one out to each client that's
listening over the Internet.
The advantage of this is that they
can go anywhere across the Internet.
The drawback is that there are
N copies of each packet on the network.
And so the server has to
work fairly hard to do this,
and the amount of bandwidth you
use is directly proportional to
the number of clients you've got.
This adds complexity and rather than
trying to do all this on one machine,
we've separated this.
There's a transmitter and
a separate reflector in the
streaming server to do this.
And there are more complicated
topologies of this that you can do.
You can send,
you can unicast all the way across
to a remote streaming server
and then turn that back into a
multicast for that area and so on.
So you can route these
things different ways.
So if you want to be seeded with
this and be able to use these APIs,
the person to contact is Jeff Lowe,
the QuickTime technology manager,
and his email address is up there.
You may know also that there is
an existing tool for broadcasting
to the Sorenson Broadcaster,
and there's a Birds of a Feather meeting
tomorrow night in J2 for people who are
interested in the Sorenson Broadcaster.
And there's also a second
Birds of a Feather session
discussing the details of VDIGs,
which if you worked with
the QuickTime Capture staff,
that's also happening tomorrow night.
So, okay, so that's it.
Thank you.